docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/bot.md, before:

# Bot

This schema defines Bot entity. A bot automates tasks, such as adding description, identifying the importance of data. It runs as a special user in the system.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/bots.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/bots.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
 - **id**
	 - Unique identifier of a bot instance.
	 - $ref: [../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
 - **name**
	 - Name of the bot.
	 - Type: `string`
	 - Length: between 1 and 128
 - **displayName**
	 - Name used for display purposes. Example 'FirstName LastName'.
	 - Type: `string`
 - **description**
	 - Description of the bot.
	 - Type: `string`
 - **version**
	 - Metadata version of the entity.
	 - $ref: [../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
 - **updatedAt**
	 - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds.
	 - $ref: [../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](../types/basic.md#timestamp)
 - **updatedBy**
	 - User who made the update.
	 - Type: `string`
 - **href**
	 - Link to the resource corresponding to this bot.
	 - $ref: [../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
 - **changeDescription**
	 - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
	 - $ref: [../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)
 - **deleted**
	 - When `true` indicates the entity has been soft deleted.
	 - Type: `boolean`
	 - Default: _false_


_This document was updated on: Tuesday, January 25, 2022_

Commit message:

updated json schema and schema docs (#3219)
* updated json schema and schema docs

* added glossay to readme

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/bot.md, after:

# Bot

This schema defines Bot entity. A bot automates tasks, such as adding description, identifying the importance of data. It runs as a special user in the system.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/bots.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/bots.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
 - **id**
	 - Unique identifier of a bot instance.
	 - $ref: [../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
 - **name**
	 - Name of the bot.
	 - Type: `string`
	 - Length: between 1 and 128
 - **displayName**
	 - Name used for display purposes. Example 'FirstName LastName'.
	 - Type: `string`
 - **description**
	 - Description of the bot.
	 - Type: `string`
 - **version**
	 - Metadata version of the entity.
	 - $ref: [../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
 - **updatedAt**
	 - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity in Unix epoch time milliseconds.
	 - $ref: [../type/basic.json#/definitions/timestamp](../types/basic.md#timestamp)
 - **updatedBy**
	 - User who made the update.
	 - Type: `string`
 - **href**
	 - Link to the resource corresponding to this bot.
	 - $ref: [../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
 - **changeDescription**
	 - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
	 - $ref: [../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)
 - **deleted**
	 - When `true` indicates the entity has been soft deleted.
	 - Type: `boolean`
	 - Default: _false_


_This document was updated on: Monday, March 7, 2022_
