docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/chart.md, before:

# Chart

This schema defines the Chart entity. Charts are built using tables or sql queries by analyzing the data. Charts can be part of Dashboard.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/chart.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/chart.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier that identifies a chart instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies this Chart.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 64
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this Chart. It could be title or label from the source services.
  - Type: `string`
- **fullyQualifiedName**
  - A unique name that identifies a dashboard in the format 'ServiceName.ChartName'.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 64
- **description**
  - Description of the dashboard, what it is, and how to use it.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **chartType**
  - $ref: [#/definitions/chartType](#charttype)
- **chartUrl**
  - Chart URL, pointing to its own Service URL.
  - Type: `string`
  - String format must be a "uri"
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **owner**
  - Owner of this dashboard.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **tables**
  - Link to table used in this chart.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **followers**
  - Followers of this chart.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **tags**
  - Tags for this chart.
  - Type: `array`
    - **Items**
    - $ref: [../../type/tagLabel.json](../types/taglabel.md)
- **service** `required`
  - Link to service where this dashboard is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **usageSummary**
  - Latest usage information for this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/usageDetails.json](../types/usagedetails.md)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)


## Type definitions in this schema
### chartType

- This schema defines the type used for describing different types of charts.
- Type: `string`
- The value is restricted to the following: 
  1. _"Line"_
  2. _"Table"_
  3. _"Bar"_
  4. _"Area"_
  5. _"Pie"_
  6. _"Histogram"_
  7. _"Scatter"_
  8. _"Text"_
  9. _"BoxPlot"_
  10. _"Other"_


_This document was updated on: Monday, November 15, 2021_

Commit message:

updating schema docs (#1640)
* updating schema docs

* added page links and references

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/chart.md, after:

# Chart

This schema defines the Chart entity. Charts are built using tables or sql queries by analyzing the data. Charts can be part of Dashboard.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/chart.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/chart.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier that identifies a chart instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies this Chart.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 128
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this Chart. It could be title or label from the source services.
  - Type: `string`
- **fullyQualifiedName**
  - A unique name that identifies a dashboard in the format 'ServiceName.ChartName'.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 256
- **description**
  - Description of the dashboard, what it is, and how to use it.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **chartType**
  - $ref: [#/definitions/chartType](#charttype)
- **chartUrl**
  - Chart URL, pointing to its own Service URL.
  - Type: `string`
  - String format must be a "uri"
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **owner**
  - Owner of this dashboard.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **tables**
  - Link to table used in this chart.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **followers**
  - Followers of this chart.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **tags**
  - Tags for this chart.
  - Type: `array`
    - **Items**
    - $ref: [../../type/tagLabel.json](../types/taglabel.md)
- **service** `required`
  - Link to service where this dashboard is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **serviceType**
  - Service type where this chart is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../services/dashboardService.json#/definitions/dashboardServiceType](../services/dashboardservice.md#dashboardservicetype)
- **usageSummary**
  - Latest usage information for this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/usageDetails.json](../types/usagedetails.md)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)


## Type definitions in this schema
### chartType

- This schema defines the type used for describing different types of charts.
- Type: `string`
- The value is restricted to the following: 
  1. _"Line"_
  2. _"Table"_
  3. _"Bar"_
  4. _"Area"_
  5. _"Pie"_
  6. _"Histogram"_
  7. _"Scatter"_
  8. _"Text"_
  9. _"BoxPlot"_
  10. _"Other"_

_This document was updated on: Thursday, December 9, 2021_
