docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/dashboardservice.md, before:

# Dashboard Service

This schema defines the Dashboard Service entity, such as Looker and Superset.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/services/dashboardService.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/services/dashboardService.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier of this dashboard service instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies this dashboard service.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 64
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this dashboard service.
  - Type: `string`
- **serviceType** `required`
  - Type of dashboard service such as Looker or Superset...
  - $ref: [#/definitions/dashboardServiceType](#dashboardservicetype)
- **description**
  - Description of a dashboard service instance.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **dashboardUrl** `required`
  - Dashboard Service URL. This will be used to make REST API calls to Dashboard Service.
  - Type: `string`
  - String format must be a "uri"
- **username**
  - Username to log-into Dashboard Service.
  - Type: `string`
- **password**
  - Password to log-into Dashboard Service.
  - Type: `string`
- **ingestionSchedule**
  - Schedule for running metadata ingestion jobs.
  - $ref: [../../type/schedule.json](../types/schedule.md)
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this dashboard service.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)


## Type definitions in this schema

### dashboardServiceType

- Type of Dashboard service - Superset, Looker, Redash or Tableau.
- Type: `string`
- The value is restricted to the following: 
  1. _"Superset"_
  2. _"Looker"_
  3. _"Tableau"_
  4. _"Redash"_


_This document was updated on: Monday, November 15, 2021_

Commit message:

updating schema docs (#1640)
* updating schema docs

* added page links and references

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/dashboardservice.md, after:

# Dashboard Service

This schema defines the Dashboard Service entity, such as Looker and Superset.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/services/dashboardService.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/services/dashboardService.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier of this dashboard service instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies this dashboard service.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 128
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this dashboard service.
  - Type: `string`
- **serviceType** `required`
  - Type of dashboard service such as Looker or Superset...
  - $ref: [#/definitions/dashboardServiceType](#dashboardservicetype)
- **description**
  - Description of a dashboard service instance.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **dashboardUrl** `required`
  - Dashboard Service URL. This will be used to make REST API calls to Dashboard Service.
  - Type: `string`
  - String format must be a "uri"
- **username**
  - Username to log-into Dashboard Service.
  - Type: `string`
- **password**
  - Password to log-into Dashboard Service.
  - Type: `string`
- **ingestionSchedule**
  - Schedule for running metadata ingestion jobs.
  - $ref: [../../type/schedule.json](../types/schedule.md)
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this dashboard service.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)


## Type definitions in this schema

### dashboardServiceType

- Type of Dashboard service - Superset, Looker, Redash or Tableau.
- Type: `string`
- The value is restricted to the following: 
  1. _"Superset"_
  2. _"Looker"_
  3. _"Tableau"_
  4. _"Redash"_

_This document was updated on: Thursday, December 9, 2021_
