docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/database.md, before:

# Database

This schema defines the Database entity. A database also referred to as Database Catalog is a collection of tables.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/database.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/database.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
- **id**
  - Unique identifier that identifies this database instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies the database.
  - $ref: [#/definitions/databaseName](#databasename)
- **fullyQualifiedName**
  - Name that uniquely identifies a database in the format 'ServiceName.DatabaseName'.
  - Type: `string`
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this database.
  - Type: `string`
- **description**
  - Description of the database instance.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **owner**
  - Owner of this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **service** `required`
  - Link to the database cluster/service where this database is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **location**
  - Reference to the Location that contains this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **usageSummary**
  - Latest usage information for this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/usageDetails.json](../types/usagedetails.md)
- **tables**
  - References to tables in the database.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)


## Type definitions in this schema

### databaseName

- Name that identifies the database.
- Type: `string`
- The value must match this pattern: `^[^.]*$`
- Length: between 1 and 64


_This document was updated on: Monday, November 15, 2021_

Commit message:

updating schema docs (#1640)
* updating schema docs

* added page links and references

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/database.md, after:

# Database

This schema defines the Database entity. A database also referred to as Database Catalog is a collection of tables.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/database.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/database.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
- **id**
  - Unique identifier that identifies this database instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies the database.
  - $ref: [#/definitions/databaseName](#databasename)
- **fullyQualifiedName**
  - Name that uniquely identifies a database in the format 'ServiceName.DatabaseName'.
  - Type: `string`
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this database.
  - Type: `string`
- **description**
  - Description of the database instance.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **owner**
  - Owner of this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **service** `required`
  - Link to the database cluster/service where this database is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **serviceType**
  - Service type where this database is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../services/databaseService.json#/definitions/databaseServiceType](../services/databaseservice.md#databaseservicetype)
- **location**
  - Reference to the Location that contains this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **usageSummary**
  - Latest usage information for this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/usageDetails.json](../types/usagedetails.md)
- **tables**
  - References to tables in the database.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)


## Type definitions in this schema

### databaseName

- Name that identifies the database.
- Type: `string`
- The value must match this pattern: `^[^.]*$`
- Length: between 1 and 128

_This document was updated on: Thursday, December 9, 2021_
