docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/pipelineservice.md, before:

# Pipeline Service

This schema defines the Pipeline Service entity, such as Airflow and Prefect.

**$id: https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/services/messagingservice.json**

Type: `object`

## Properties
 - **id** `required`
   - Unique identifier of this pipeline service instance.
   - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
 - **name** `required`
   - Name that identifies this pipeline service.
   - Type: `string`
   - Length: between 1 and 64
 - **serviceType**
   - Type of pipeline service such as Airflow or Prefect...
   - $ref: [#/definitions/pipelineServiceType](#pipelineservicetype)
 - **description**
   - Description of a pipeline service instance.
   - Type: `string`
 - **displayName**
     - Display Name that identifies this pipeline service. It could be title or label from the source services.
     - Type: `string`
 - **pipelineUrl** `required`
   - Pipeline Service Management/UI URL.
   - Type: `string`
   - String format must be a "uri"
 - **ingestionSchedule**
   - Schedule for running metadata ingestion jobs.
   - $ref: [../../type/schedule.json](../types/schedule.md)
 - **href**
   - Link to the resource corresponding to this pipeline service.
   - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)


## Type definitions in this schema
### pipelineServiceType

 - Type of pipeline service - Airflow or Prefect.
 - Type: `string`
 - The value is restricted to the following: 
   1. _"Airflow"_
   2. _"Prefect"_
	 

_This document was updated on: Thursday, October 14, 2021_

Commit message:

updated metadata-ingestion and apis documents (#839)
* updated metadata-ingestion and apis documents

* minor changes in

* addressing maven ci findings

Co-authored-by: Parth Panchal <parthpanchal@Parths-MacBook-Air.local>

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/pipelineservice.md, after:

# Pipeline Service

This schema defines the Pipeline Service entity, such as Airflow and Prefect.

**$id: https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/services/messagingservice.json**

Type: `object`

## Properties
 - **id** `required`
   - Unique identifier of this pipeline service instance.
   - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
 - **name** `required`
   - Name that identifies this pipeline service.
   - Type: `string`
   - Length: between 1 and 64
 - **serviceType**
   - Type of pipeline service such as Airflow or Prefect...
   - $ref: [#/definitions/pipelineServiceType](#pipelineservicetype)
 - **description**
   - Description of a pipeline service instance.
   - Type: `string`
 - **displayName**
   - Display Name that identifies this pipeline service. It could be title or label from the source services.
   - Type: `string`
 - **version**
   - Metadata version of the entity.
   - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/basic.md#entityversion)
 - **updatedAt**
   - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
   - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
 - **updatedBy**
   - User who made the update.
   - Type: `string`
 - **pipelineUrl** `required`
   - Pipeline Service Management/UI URL.
   - Type: `string`
   - String format must be a "uri"
 - **ingestionSchedule**
   - Schedule for running metadata ingestion jobs.
   - $ref: [../../type/schedule.json](../types/schedule.md)
 - **href**
   - Link to the resource corresponding to this pipeline service.
   - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)


## Type definitions in this schema
### pipelineServiceType

 - Type of pipeline service - Airflow or Prefect.
 - Type: `string`
 - The value is restricted to the following: 
   1. _"Airflow"_
   2. _"Prefect"_
	 
_This document was updated on: Monday, October 18, 2021_
