docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/pipeline.md, before:

# Pipeline

This schema defines the Pipeline entity. A pipeline enables the flow of data from source to destination through a series of processing steps. ETL is a type of pipeline where the series of steps Extract, Transform and Load the data.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/pipeline.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/pipeline.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier that identifies a pipeline instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies this pipeline instance uniquely.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 64
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this Pipeline. It could be title or label from the source services.
  - Type: `string`
- **fullyQualifiedName**
  - A unique name that identifies a pipeline in the format 'ServiceName.PipelineName'.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 64
- **description**
  - Description of this Pipeline.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **pipelineUrl**
  - Pipeline  URL to visit/manage. This URL points to respective pipeline service UI.
  - Type: `string`
  - String format must be a "uri"
- **concurrency**
  - Concurrency of the Pipeline.
  - Type: `integer`
- **pipelineLocation**
  - Pipeline Code Location.
  - Type: `string`
- **startDate**
  - Start date of the workflow.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **tasks**
  - All the tasks that are part of pipeline.
  - Type: `array`
    - **Items**
    - $ref: [#/definitions/task](#task)
- **followers**
  - Followers of this Pipeline.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **tags**
  - Tags for this Pipeline.
  - Type: `array`
    - **Items**
    - $ref: [../../type/tagLabel.json](../types/taglabel.md)
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **owner**
  - Owner of this pipeline.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **service** `required`
  - Link to service where this pipeline is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)

## Type definitions in this schema

### task

- Type: `object`
- **Properties**
  - **name** `required`
    - Name that identifies this task instance uniquely.
    - Type: `string`
    - Length: between 1 and 64
  - **displayName**
    - Display Name that identifies this Task. It could be title or label from the pipeline services.
    - Type: `string`
  - **fullyQualifiedName**
    - A unique name that identifies a pipeline in the format 'ServiceName.PipelineName.TaskName'.
    - Type: `string`
    - Length: between 1 and 64
  - **description**
    - Description of this Task.
    - Type: `string`
  - **taskUrl**
    - Task URL to visit/manage. This URL points to respective pipeline service UI.
    - Type: `string`
    - String format must be a "uri"
  - **downstreamTasks**
    - All the tasks that are downstream of this task.
    - Type: `array`
      - **Items**
      - Type: `string`
      - Length: between 1 and 64
  - **taskType**
    - Type of the Task. Usually refers to the class it implements.
    - Type: `string`
  - **taskSQL**
    - SQL used in the task. Can be used to determine the lineage.
    - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/sqlQuery](../types/basic.md#sqlquery)
  - **tags**
    - Tags for this task.
    - Type: `array`
      - **Items**
      - $ref: [../../type/tagLabel.json](../types/taglabel.md)

_This document was updated on: Monday, November 15, 2021_

Commit message:

updating schema docs (#1640)
* updating schema docs

* added page links and references

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/pipeline.md, after:

# Pipeline

This schema defines the Pipeline entity. A pipeline enables the flow of data from source to destination through a series of processing steps. ETL is a type of pipeline where the series of steps Extract, Transform and Load the data.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/pipeline.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/pipeline.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier that identifies a pipeline instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies this pipeline instance uniquely.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 128
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this Pipeline. It could be title or label from the source services.
  - Type: `string`
- **fullyQualifiedName**
  - A unique name that identifies a pipeline in the format 'ServiceName.PipelineName'.
  - Type: `string`
- **description**
  - Description of this Pipeline.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **pipelineUrl**
  - Pipeline  URL to visit/manage. This URL points to respective pipeline service UI.
  - Type: `string`
  - String format must be a "uri"
- **concurrency**
  - Concurrency of the Pipeline.
  - Type: `integer`
- **pipelineLocation**
  - Pipeline Code Location.
  - Type: `string`
- **startDate**
  - Start date of the workflow.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **tasks**
  - All the tasks that are part of pipeline.
  - Type: `array`
    - **Items**
    - $ref: [#/definitions/task](#task)
- **followers**
  - Followers of this Pipeline.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **tags**
  - Tags for this Pipeline.
  - Type: `array`
    - **Items**
    - $ref: [../../type/tagLabel.json](../types/taglabel.md)
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **owner**
  - Owner of this pipeline.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **service** `required`
  - Link to service where this pipeline is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **serviceType**
  - Service type where this pipeline is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../services/pipelineService.json#/definitions/pipelineServiceType](../services/pipelineservice.md#pipelineservicetype)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)

## Type definitions in this schema

### task

- Type: `object`
- **Properties**
  - **name** `required`
    - Name that identifies this task instance uniquely.
    - Type: `string`
  - **displayName**
    - Display Name that identifies this Task. It could be title or label from the pipeline services.
    - Type: `string`
  - **fullyQualifiedName**
    - A unique name that identifies a pipeline in the format 'ServiceName.PipelineName.TaskName'.
    - Type: `string`
  - **description**
    - Description of this Task.
    - Type: `string`
  - **taskUrl**
    - Task URL to visit/manage. This URL points to respective pipeline service UI.
    - Type: `string`
    - String format must be a "uri"
  - **downstreamTasks**
    - All the tasks that are downstream of this task.
    - Type: `array`
      - **Items**
      - Type: `string`
  - **taskType**
    - Type of the Task. Usually refers to the class it implements.
    - Type: `string`
  - **taskSQL**
    - SQL used in the task. Can be used to determine the lineage.
    - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/sqlQuery](../types/basic.md#sqlquery)
  - **tags**
    - Tags for this task.
    - Type: `array`
      - **Items**
      - $ref: [../../type/tagLabel.json](../types/taglabel.md)

_This document was updated on: Thursday, December 9, 2021_
