docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/report.md, before:

# Report

This schema defines the Report entity. Reports are static information computed from data periodically that includes data in text, table, and visual form.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/report.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/report.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier that identifies this report.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies this report instance uniquely.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 64
- **fullyQualifiedName**
  - A unique name that identifies a report in the format 'ServiceName.ReportName'.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 64
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this report. It could be title or label from the source services.
  - Type: `string`
- **description**
  - Description of this report instance.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this report.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **owner**
  - Owner of this pipeline.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **service** `required`
  - Link to service where this report is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **usageSummary**
  - Latest usage information for this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/usageDetails.json](../types/usagedetails.md)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)


_This document was updated on: Monday, November 15, 2021_

Commit message:

updating schema docs (#1640)
* updating schema docs

* added page links and references

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/report.md, after:

# Report

This schema defines the Report entity. Reports are static information computed from data periodically that includes data in text, table, and visual form.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/report.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/data/report.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier that identifies this report.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - Name that identifies this report instance uniquely.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 128
- **fullyQualifiedName**
  - A unique name that identifies a report in the format 'ServiceName.ReportName'.
  - Type: `string`
  - Length: between 1 and 256
- **displayName**
  - Display Name that identifies this report. It could be title or label from the source services.
  - Type: `string`
- **description**
  - Description of this report instance.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this report.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **owner**
  - Owner of this pipeline.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **service** `required`
  - Link to service where this report is hosted in.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json](../types/entityreference.md)
- **usageSummary**
  - Latest usage information for this database.
  - $ref: [../../type/usageDetails.json](../types/usagedetails.md)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)


_This document was updated on: Thursday, December 9, 2021_
