docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/team.md, before:

# Team

This schema defines the Team entity. A Team is a group of zero or more users. Teams can own zero or more data assets.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/teams/team.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/teams/team.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - $ref: [#/definitions/teamName](#teamname)
- **displayName**
  - Name used for display purposes. Example 'Data Science team'.
  - Type: `string`
- **description**
  - Description of the team.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **href** `required`
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **profile**
  - Team profile information.
  - $ref: [../../type/profile.json](../types/profile.md)
- **deleted**
  - When true the team has been deleted.
  - Type: `boolean`
- **users**
  - Users that are part of the team.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **owns**
  - List of entities owned by the team.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)

## Type definitions in this schema

### teamName

- A unique name of the team typically the team ID from an identity provider. Example - group Id from LDAP.
- Type: `string`
- Length: between 1 and 64

_This document was updated on: Monday, November 15, 2021_

Commit message:

updating schema docs (#1640)
* updating schema docs

* added page links and references

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/team.md, after:

# Team

This schema defines the Team entity. A Team is a group of zero or more users. Teams can own zero or more data assets.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/teams/team.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/teams/team.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **name** `required`
  - $ref: [#/definitions/teamName](#teamname)
- **displayName**
  - Name used for display purposes. Example 'Data Science team'.
  - Type: `string`
- **description**
  - Description of the team.
  - Type: `string`
- **version**
  - Metadata version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/entityVersion](../types/entityhistory.md#entityversion)
- **updatedAt**
  - Last update time corresponding to the new version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **updatedBy**
  - User who made the update.
  - Type: `string`
- **href** `required`
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **profile**
  - Team profile information.
  - $ref: [../../type/profile.json](../types/profile.md)
- **deleted**
  - When true the team has been deleted.
  - Type: `boolean`
- **users**
  - Users that are part of the team.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **owns**
  - List of entities owned by the team.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityReference.json#/definitions/entityReferenceList](../types/entityreference.md#entityreferencelist)
- **changeDescription**
  - Change that lead to this version of the entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/entityHistory.json#/definitions/changeDescription](../types/entityhistory.md#changedescription)

## Type definitions in this schema

### teamName

- A unique name of the team typically the team ID from an identity provider. Example - group Id from LDAP.
- Type: `string`
- Length: between 1 and 128

_This document was updated on: Thursday, December 9, 2021_
