docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/thread.md, before:

# Thread

This schema defines the Thread entity. A Thread is a collection of posts made by the users. The first post that starts a thread is **about** a data asset **from** a user. Other users can respond to this post by creating new posts in the thread. Note that bot users can also interact with a thread. A post can contains links that mention Users or other Data Assets.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/feed/thread.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/feed/thread.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier that identifies an entity instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **threadTs**
  - Timestamp of the when the first post created the thread.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **about** `required`
  - Data asset about which this thread is created for with format <#E/{enties}/{entityName}/{field}/{fieldValue}.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink](../types/basic.md#entitylink)
- **addressedTo**
  - User or team this thread is addressed to in format <#E/{enties}/{entityName}/{field}/{fieldValue}.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink](../types/basic.md#entitylink)
- **posts** `required`
  - Type: `array`
    - **Items**
    - $ref: [#/definitions/post](#post)

## Type definitions in this schema

### post

- Post within a feed.
- Type: `object`
- **Properties**
  - **message** `required`
    - Message in markdown format. See markdown support for more details.
    - Type: `string`
  - **postTs**
    - Timestamp of the post.
    - Type: `string`
    - String format must be a "date-time"
  - **from** `required`
    - ID of User (regular user or a bot) posting the message.
    - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)

_This document was updated on: Monday, November 15, 2021_

Commit message:

updating schema docs (#1640)
* updating schema docs

* added page links and references

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/entities/thread.md, after:

# Thread

This schema defines the Thread entity. A Thread is a collection of posts made by the users. The first post that starts a thread is **about** a data asset **from** a user. Other users can respond to this post by creating new posts in the thread. Note that bot users can also interact with a thread. A post can contains links that mention Users or other Data Assets.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/feed/thread.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/entity/feed/thread.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
- **id** `required`
  - Unique identifier that identifies an entity instance.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)
- **href**
  - Link to the resource corresponding to this entity.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/href](../types/basic.md#href)
- **threadTs**
  - Timestamp of the when the first post created the thread.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](../types/basic.md#datetime)
- **about** `required`
  - Data asset about which this thread is created for with format <#E/{enties}/{entityName}/{field}/{fieldValue}.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink](../types/basic.md#entitylink)
- **addressedTo**
  - User or team this thread is addressed to in format <#E/{enties}/{entityName}/{field}/{fieldValue}.
  - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/entityLink](../types/basic.md#entitylink)
- **posts** `required`
  - Type: `array`
    - **Items**
    - $ref: [#/definitions/post](#post)

## Type definitions in this schema

### post

- Post within a feed.
- Type: `object`
- **Properties**
  - **message** `required`
    - Message in markdown format. See markdown support for more details.
    - Type: `string`
  - **postTs**
    - Timestamp of the post.
    - Type: `string`
    - String format must be a "date-time"
  - **from** `required`
    - ID of User (regular user or a bot) posting the message.
    - $ref: [../../type/basic.json#/definitions/uuid](../types/basic.md#uuid)

_This document was updated on: Thursday, December 9, 2021_
