docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/auditlog.md, before:

# Audit Log

This schema defines the Audit Log type to capture the audit trail of POST, PUT, and PATCH API operations.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/auditLog.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/auditLog.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
- **method** `required`
  - HTTP Method used in a call.
  - Type: `string`
  - The value is restricted to the following: 
    1. _"POST"_
    2. _"PUT"_
    3. _"PATCH"_
    4. _"DELETE"_
- **responseCode** `required`
  - HTTP response code for the api requested.
  - Type: `integer`
- **path** `required`
  - Requested API Path.
  - Type: `string`
- **userName** `required`
  - Name of the user who made the API request.
  - Type: `string`
- **entityId** `required`
  - Identifier of entity that was modified by the operation.
  - $ref: [basic.json#/definitions/uuid](basic.md#uuid)
- **entityType** `required`
  - Type of Entity that is modified by the operation.
  - Type: `string`
- **dateTime**
  - Date when the API call is made.
  - $ref: [basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](basic.md#datetime)

_This document was updated on: Monday, November 15, 2021_

Commit message:

updating schema docs (#1640)
* updating schema docs

* added page links and references

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/auditlog.md, after:

# Audit Log

This schema defines the Audit Log type to capture the audit trail of POST, PUT, and PATCH API operations.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/auditLog.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/auditLog.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
- **method** `required`
  - HTTP Method used in a call.
  - Type: `string`
  - The value is restricted to the following: 
    1. _"POST"_
    2. _"PUT"_
    3. _"PATCH"_
    4. _"DELETE"_
- **responseCode** `required`
  - HTTP response code for the api requested.
  - Type: `integer`
- **path** `required`
  - Requested API Path.
  - Type: `string`
- **userName** `required`
  - Name of the user who made the API request.
  - Type: `string`
- **entityId** `required`
  - Identifier of entity that was modified by the operation.
  - $ref: [basic.json#/definitions/uuid](basic.md#uuid)
- **entityType** `required`
  - Type of Entity that is modified by the operation.
  - Type: `string`
- **dateTime**
  - Date when the API call is made.
  - $ref: [basic.json#/definitions/dateTime](basic.md#datetime)

_This document was updated on: Thursday, December 9, 2021_
