docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/basic.md, before:

# Basic

This schema defines basic common types that are used by other schemas.

**$id: **[https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/basic.json](https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/basic.json)


## Type definitions in this schema
### uuid

 - Unique id used to identify an entity.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "uuid"


### email

 - Email address of a user or other entities.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "email"
 - The value must match this pattern: `^\S+@\S+\.\S+$`
 - Length: between 6 and 127


### entityLink

 - Link to an entity or field within an entity using this format `<#E/{enties}/{entityName}/{field}/{fieldValue}`.
 - Type: `string`
 - The value must match this pattern: `^<#E/\S+/\S+>$`


### timestamp

 - Timestamp in unixTimeMillis.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "utc-millisec"


### href

 - URI that points to a resource.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "uri"


### timeInterval

 - Time interval in unixTimeMillis.
 - Type: `object`
 - **Properties**
   - **start**
     - Start time in unixTimeMillis.
     - Type: `integer`
   - **end**
     - End time in unixTimeMillis.
     - Type: `integer`


### duration

 - Duration in ISO 8601 format in UTC. Example - 'P23DT23H'.
 - Type: `string`


### date

 - Date in ISO 8601 format in UTC. Example - '2018-11-13'.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "date"


### dateTime

 - Date and time in ISO 8601 format. Example - '2018-11-13T20:20:39+00:00'.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "date-time"


### sqlQuery

 - SQL query statement. Example - 'select * from orders'.
 - Type: `string`


_This document was updated on: Thursday, September 16, 2021_

Commit message:

updated metadata-ingestion and apis documents (#839)
* updated metadata-ingestion and apis documents

* minor changes in

* addressing maven ci findings

Co-authored-by: Parth Panchal <parthpanchal@Parths-MacBook-Air.local>

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/basic.md, after:

# Basic

This schema defines basic common types that are used by other schemas.

**$id: [https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/basic.json](https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/basic.json)**


## Type definitions in this schema
### uuid

 - Unique id used to identify an entity.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "uuid"


### email

 - Email address of a user or other entities.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "email"
 - The value must match this pattern: `^\S+@\S+\.\S+$`
 - Length: between 6 and 127


### timestamp

 - Timestamp in unixTimeMillis.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "utc-millisec"


### href

 - URI that points to a resource.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "uri"


### timeInterval

 - Time interval in unixTimeMillis.
 - Type: `object`
 - **Properties**
   - **start**
     - Start time in unixTimeMillis.
     - Type: `integer`
   - **end**
     - End time in unixTimeMillis.
     - Type: `integer`


### duration

 - Duration in ISO 8601 format in UTC. Example - 'P23DT23H'.
 - Type: `string`


### date

 - Date in ISO 8601 format in UTC. Example - '2018-11-13'.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "date"


### dateTime

 - Date and time in ISO 8601 format. Example - '2018-11-13T20:20:39+00:00'.
 - Type: `string`
 - String format must be a "date-time"


### entityVersion

 - Metadata version of the entity in the form `Major.Minor`. First version always starts from `0.1` when the entity is created. When the backward compatible changes are made to the entity, only the `Minor` version is incremented - example `1.0` is changed to `1.1`. When backward incompatible changes are made the `Major` version is incremented - example `1.1` to `2.0`.
 - Type: `number`
 - Default: `0.1`
 - Range:  &ge; 0.1
 - The value must be a multiple of `0.1`


### entityLink

 - Link to an entity or field within an entity using this format `<#E/{enties}/{entityName}/{field}/{fieldValue}`.
 - Type: `string`
 - The value must match this pattern: `^<#E/\S+/\S+>$`


### sqlQuery

 - SQL query statement. Example - 'select * from orders'.
 - Type: `string`


_This document was updated on: Monday, October 18, 2021_
