docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/jdbcconnection.md, before:

# JDBC connection

This schema defines the type used for JDBC connection information.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/jdbcConnection.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/jdbcConnection.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
 - **driverClass** `required`
	 - JDBC driver class.
	 - $ref: [#/definitions/driverClass](#driverclass)
 - **connectionUrl** `required`
	 - JDBC connection URL.
	 - $ref: [#/definitions/connectionUrl](#connectionurl)
 - **userName** `required`
	 - Login user name.
	 - Type: `string`
 - **password** `required`
	 - Login password.
	 - Type: `string`


## Type definitions in this schema
### driverClass

 - Type used for JDBC driver class.
 - Type: `string`


### connectionUrl

 - Type used for JDBC connection URL of format `url_scheme://<username>:<password>@<host>:<port>/<db_name>`.
 - Type: `string`


### jdbcInfo

 - Type for capturing JDBC connector information.
 - Type: `object`
 - **Properties**
	 - **driverClass** `required`
		 - $ref: [#/definitions/driverClass](#driverclass)
	 - **connectionUrl** `required`
		 - $ref: [#/definitions/connectionUrl](#connectionurl)




_This document was updated on: Tuesday, January 25, 2022_

Commit message:

updated json schema and schema docs (#3219)
* updated json schema and schema docs

* added glossay to readme

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/jdbcconnection.md, after:

# JDBC connection

This schema defines the type used for JDBC connection information.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/jdbcConnection.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/jdbcConnection.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
 - **driverClass** `required`
	 - JDBC driver class.
	 - $ref: [#/definitions/driverClass](#driverclass)
 - **connectionUrl** `required`
	 - JDBC connection URL.
	 - $ref: [#/definitions/connectionUrl](#connectionurl)
 - **userName** `required`
	 - Login user name.
	 - Type: `string`
 - **password** `required`
	 - Login password.
	 - Type: `string`


## Type definitions in this schema
### driverClass

 - Type used for JDBC driver class.
 - Type: `string`


### connectionUrl

 - Type used for JDBC connection URL of format `url_scheme://<username>:<password>@<host>:<port>/<db_name>`.
 - Type: `string`


### jdbcInfo

 - Type for capturing JDBC connector information.
 - Type: `object`
 - This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.
 - **Properties**
	 - **driverClass** `required`
		 - $ref: [#/definitions/driverClass](#driverclass)
	 - **connectionUrl** `required`
		 - $ref: [#/definitions/connectionUrl](#connectionurl)




_This document was updated on: Monday, March 7, 2022_
