docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/profile.md, before:

# Profile

This schema defines the type for a profile of a user, team, or organization.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/profile.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/profile.json)

Type: `object`

## Properties
 - **images**
	 - $ref: [#/definitions/imageList](#imagelist)


## Type definitions in this schema
### imageList

 - Links to a list of images of varying resolutions/sizes.
 - Type: `object`
 - **Properties**
	 - **image**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image24**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image32**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image48**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image72**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image192**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image512**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"




_This document was updated on: Tuesday, January 25, 2022_

Commit message:

updated json schema and schema docs (#3219)
* updated json schema and schema docs

* added glossay to readme

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/profile.md, after:

# Profile

This schema defines the type for a profile of a user, team, or organization.

**$id:**[**https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/profile.json**](https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/profile.json)

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
 - **images**
	 - $ref: [#/definitions/imageList](#imagelist)


## Type definitions in this schema
### imageList

 - Links to a list of images of varying resolutions/sizes.
 - Type: `object`
 - This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.
 - **Properties**
	 - **image**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image24**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image32**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image48**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image72**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image192**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"
	 - **image512**
		 - Type: `string`
		 - String format must be a "uri"




_This document was updated on: Monday, March 7, 2022_
