docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/taglabel.md, before:

# Tag Label

This schema defines the type for labeling an entity with a Tag.

**$id: https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/tagLabel.json**

Type: `object`

## Properties
 - **tagFQN**
   - Type: `string`
   - Length:  &le; 45
 - **labelType**
   - Label type describes how a tag label was applied. 'Manual' indicates the tag label was applied by a person. 'Derived' indicates a tag label was derived using the associated tag relationship (see TagCategory.json for more details). 'Propagated` indicates a tag label was propagated from upstream based on lineage. 'Automated' is used when a tool was used to determine the tag label.
   - Type: `string`
   - The value is restricted to the following: 
     1. _"Manual"_
     2. _"Propagated"_
     3. _"Automated"_
     4. _"Derived"_
   - Default: _"Manual"_
 - **state**
   - 'Suggested' state is used when a tag label is suggested by users or tools. Owner of the entity must confirm the suggested labels before it is marked as 'Confirmed'.
   - Type: `string`
   - The value is restricted to the following: 
     1. _"Suggested"_
     2. _"Confirmed"_
   - Default: _"Confirmed"_
 - **href**
   - Link to the tag resource.
   - $ref: [basic.json#/definitions/href](basic.md#href)

_This document was updated on: Thursday, September 16, 2021_

Commit message:

Updated doc with latest json schema (#743)
Co-authored-by: Parth Panchal <parthpanchal@Parths-MacBook-Air.local>

docs/openmetadata-apis/schemas/types/taglabel.md, after:

# Tag Label

This schema defines the type for labeling an entity with a Tag.

**$id: https://open-metadata.org/schema/type/tagLabel.json**

Type: `object`

This schema <u>does not</u> accept additional properties.

## Properties
 - **tagFQN**
   - Type: `string`
   - Length:  &le; 45
 - **labelType**
   - Label type describes how a tag label was applied. 'Manual' indicates the tag label was applied by a person. 'Derived' indicates a tag label was derived using the associated tag relationship (see TagCategory.json for more details). 'Propagated` indicates a tag label was propagated from upstream based on lineage. 'Automated' is used when a tool was used to determine the tag label.
   - Type: `string`
   - The value is restricted to the following: 
     1. _"Manual"_
     2. _"Propagated"_
     3. _"Automated"_
     4. _"Derived"_
   - Default: _"Manual"_
 - **state**
   - 'Suggested' state is used when a tag label is suggested by users or tools. Owner of the entity must confirm the suggested labels before it is marked as 'Confirmed'.
   - Type: `string`
   - The value is restricted to the following: 
     1. _"Suggested"_
     2. _"Confirmed"_
   - Default: _"Confirmed"_
 - **href**
   - Link to the tag resource.
   - $ref: [basic.json#/definitions/href](basic.md#href)

_This document was updated on: Tuesday, October 12, 2021_
