docs/install/run-in-production.md, before:

---
description: >-
  This installation guide will help you deploy OpenMetadata on your own
  machine(s) without the use of Docker.
---

# Run in Production

## Requirements

This guide assumes you have access to a command-line environment or shell such as bash, zsh, etc. or Linux or Mac OS X or PowerShell on Microsoft Windows.&#x20;

This guide also assumes that your command-line environment has access to the `tar` utility.

Please review additional requirements listed in the subsections below.

### Java (version 11.0.0 or greater)

OpenMetadata is built using Java, DropWizard, and Jetty.

Type the following command to verify that you have a supported version of the Java runtime installed.

```
java --version
```

To install Java or upgrade to Java 11 or greater, see the instructions for your operating system at [How do I install Java?](https://java.com/en/download/help/download\_options.html#mac)

### MySQL (version 8.0.0 or greater)

To install MySQL see the instructions for your operating system (OS) at [Installing and Upgrading MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/installing.html) or visit one of the following OS-specific guides.

* [Installing MySQL on Linux](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/linux-installation.html)
* [Installing MySQL on Microsoft Windows](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/windows-installation.html)
* [Installing MySQL on macOS](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/macos-installation.html)

### Elasticsearch (version 7.0.0 or greater)

To install or upgrade Elasticsearch to a supported version please see the instructions for your operating system at [Installing Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/install-elasticsearch.html).

### Airflow (version 2.0.0 or greater) or other workflow schedulers

OpenMetadata performs metadata ingestion using ingestion connectors designed to run in Airflow or another workflow scheduler.&#x20;

To install Airflow, please see the [Airflow Installation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/installation/index.html) guide.

## Procedure

### 1. Download the distribution

Download the latest [binary release](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/releases/download/0.5.0/openmetadata-0.6.0.tar.gz).&#x20;

### 2. Untar the release download

Once the tar file has download, run the following command.

```bash
tar -zxvf openmetadata-0.6.0.tar.gz
```

### 3. Navigate to the directory created

```
cd openmetadata-0.6.0
```

### 4. Start OpenMetadata

OpenMetadata release ships with `./bin/openmetadata` init.d style script. Run the following command from the `openmetadata-0.6.0` directory.

```
./bin/openmetdata start
```

We recommend configuring `serviced` to monitor the OpenMetadata command to restart in case of any failures.Start OpenMetadata.

## Running with a load balancer

One or more OpenMetadata instances can be put behind a load balancer for reverse proxying, in that case, an appropriate OpenMetdata URL must be mentioned in the load balancer's configuration file.

For example, in case Apache mod proxy the VirtualHost tag in the configuration file should be edited out with the following

```
  <VirtualHost *:80>
  <Proxy balancer://mycluster>
      BalancerMember http://127.0.0.1:8585 <!-- First OpenMetadata server -->
      BalancerMember http://127.0.0.2:8686 <!-- Second OpenMetadata server -->
  </Proxy>

      ProxyPreserveHost On

      ProxyPass / balancer://mycluster/
      ProxyPassReverse / balancer://mycluster/
  </VirtualHost>
```

Commit message:

GitBook: [#56] Update download distribution section to clarify where to find binary releases.

docs/install/run-in-production.md, after:

---
description: >-
  This installation guide will help you deploy OpenMetadata on your own
  machine(s) without the use of Docker.
---

# Run in Production

## Requirements

This guide assumes you have access to a command-line environment or shell such as bash, zsh, etc. or Linux or Mac OS X or PowerShell on Microsoft Windows.&#x20;

This guide also assumes that your command-line environment has access to the `tar` utility.

Please review additional requirements listed in the subsections below.

### Java (version 11.0.0 or greater)

OpenMetadata is built using Java, DropWizard, and Jetty.

Type the following command to verify that you have a supported version of the Java runtime installed.

```
java --version
```

To install Java or upgrade to Java 11 or greater, see the instructions for your operating system at [How do I install Java?](https://java.com/en/download/help/download\_options.html#mac)

### MySQL (version 8.0.0 or greater)

To install MySQL see the instructions for your operating system (OS) at [Installing and Upgrading MySQL](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/installing.html) or visit one of the following OS-specific guides.

* [Installing MySQL on Linux](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/linux-installation.html)
* [Installing MySQL on Microsoft Windows](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/windows-installation.html)
* [Installing MySQL on macOS](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-installation-excerpt/8.0/en/macos-installation.html)

### Elasticsearch (version 7.0.0 or greater)

To install or upgrade Elasticsearch to a supported version please see the instructions for your operating system at [Installing Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/install-elasticsearch.html).

### Airflow (version 2.0.0 or greater) or other workflow schedulers

OpenMetadata performs metadata ingestion using ingestion connectors designed to run in Airflow or another workflow scheduler.&#x20;

To install Airflow, please see the [Airflow Installation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/installation/index.html) guide.

## Procedure

### 1. Download the distribution

Visit the [releases page](https://github.com/open-metadata/OpenMetadata/releases) and download the latest binary release. Release binaries follow the naming convention of `openmetadata-x.y.z.tar.gz`. Where `x`, `y`, and `z` represent the major, minor, and patch release numbers.

For example, the release for version 0.6 is found in the Assets section at the link highlighted in the figure below.

![](../.gitbook/assets/release-binary.png)

### 2. Untar the release download

Once the tar file has download, run the following command, updated if necessary for the version of OpenMetadata that you downloaded.

```bash
tar -zxvf openmetadata-0.6.0.tar.gz
```

### 3. Navigate to the directory created

```
cd openmetadata-0.6.0
```

### 4. Start OpenMetadata

OpenMetadata release ships with `./bin/openmetadata` init.d style script. Run the following command from the `openmetadata-0.6.0` directory.

```
./bin/openmetdata start
```

We recommend configuring `serviced` to monitor the OpenMetadata command to restart in case of any failures.Start OpenMetadata.

## Running with a load balancer

One or more OpenMetadata instances can be put behind a load balancer for reverse proxying, in that case, an appropriate OpenMetdata URL must be mentioned in the load balancer's configuration file.

For example, in case Apache mod proxy the VirtualHost tag in the configuration file should be edited out with the following

```
  <VirtualHost *:80>
  <Proxy balancer://mycluster>
      BalancerMember http://127.0.0.1:8585 <!-- First OpenMetadata server -->
      BalancerMember http://127.0.0.2:8686 <!-- Second OpenMetadata server -->
  </Proxy>

      ProxyPreserveHost On

      ProxyPass / balancer://mycluster/
      ProxyPassReverse / balancer://mycluster/
  </VirtualHost>
```
